---
layout: post
title:  "Pecan pie"
date:   2021-10-02
author: "Karl Kumbier"
categories: Desserts
permalink: recipes/:categories/:title.html
image:
  path: /images/pecan-pie.png
  thumbnail: /images/pecan-pie.png
---

# Ingredients

* 3 eggs, beaten
* 2 tablespoons molasses
* 1 cup light corn syrup
* 1/4 cup brown sugar
* 4 tablespoons melted butter, cooled
* 1/2 teaspoon salt
* 1 teaspoon vanilla
* 3 cups toasted pecans (2 cups roughly chopped and 1 cup left whole)
* 1/2 [Pie Dough]({% post_url 2021-12-20-pie-crust %}), rolled and chilled.

# Directions

1. Melt butter in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat. Cook, gently swirling
   pan constantly, until particles begin to turn golden brown and butter smells
nutty, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and continue swirling the pan until the
butter is a rich brown, about 15 seconds longer. Transfer to a medium bowl,
whisk in ice cube and allow to cool but not solidify.

2. Adjust oven rack to lower middle position and preheat oven to 375°F. Roll pie
   dough into a circle roughly 12-inches in diameter. Transfer to a 9-inch pie
plate. Using a pair of kitchen shears, trim the edges of the pie dough until it
overhangs the edge of the pie plate by 1/2 an inch all the way around. Fold
edges of pie dough down, tucking it under itself, working your way all the way
around the pie plate until everything is well tucked. Use the forefinger on your
left hand and the thumb and forefinger on your right hand to crimp the edges.

3. In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs, molasses, corn syrup, brown sugar,
   browned butter, salt, and vanilla. Whisk for approximately 30 seconds, until
the mixture is homogenous and slightly frothy.

3. Line pie crust with chopped pecans, reserving the whole ones. Press down
   slightly so chopped pecans embed in the dough. Pour the filling mixture over
the pecans, then gently place the whole pecans in concentric circles on the top,
taking care not to press too hard, which will cause the nuts to sink into the
filling.

4. Bake pie for 40 minutes, rotating half way through baking. Continue baking,
   shielding the exposed nuts with aluminum foil if they threaten to burn. When
finished, the filling should by slightly jiggly, but mostly set and puffed
slightly, about 1 hour total. Allow the pie to cool at room temperature for at
least 2 hours and up to overnight before serving.

# Resources

The base recipe for this pie comes from [serious
eats](https://www.seriouseats.com/classic-pecan-pie-recipe-easy-thanksgiving-dessert).
The addition of molasses and browned butter gives this pie a richer, more
interesting flavor.

