---
layout: post
title:  "Miso ramen"
date:   2022-11-06
author: "Karl Kumbier"
categories: Mains
image:
  path: /images/miso-ramen.jpg
  thumbnail: /images/miso-ramen.jpg
permalink: recipes/:categories/:title.html
---

# Ingredients

* 1/4 lbs. pork belly, chopped (optional)
* 6 cloves garlic, finely chopped or grated
* 2 medium shallots, finely chopped
* 1 inch fresh ginger, thinly sliced
* 1/2-1 teaspoon red pepper flakes
* 8 cups low sodium chicken or vegetable broth
* 3/4 cup coconut milk (or preferred milk)
* 1/4 cup low sodium soy sauce
* 1/4 cup white miso paste
* 2-4 tablespoons chili paste, to taste (I use Gochujang)
* 4 squares ramen noodles
* 4 cups baby bok choy, chopped
* 1 tablespoon toasted sesame oil
* Toasted nori sheets, sesame seeds, green onions, and chili oil, for serving

## Mushrooms
* 4 cups mushrooms, sliced
* 1/4 cup soy sauce
* 1 tablespoon maggie sauce
* 2 teaspoons maple syrup
* 1 tablespoon siracha

## Tofu
* 1 package tofu, pressed.

# Directions

1. Preheat oven to 400F. Mix together soy sauce, maggie sauce, maple syrup, and
   siracha. Marinate mushrooms for 20 minutes, stiring occansionally to re-coat
mushrooms.

2. Slice pressed tofu into 1" cubes and transfer to high-reimmed baking pan.
   When the volume of mushrooms has reduced by 1/2. Pour the marinade over the
tofu. Transfer mushrooms to a baking sheet and bake until crispy ~10-15 min.

2. Heat a large Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add the pork belly and cook
   until crisp, about 5 minutes. If vegetarian, use 1 Tbsp sesame oil instead.
Add the garlic, shallots, ginger, and red pepper flakes. Cook, stirring
occasionally, until caramelized, about 3 minutes. Pour in the broth, milk, and
soy sauce, then whisk in the miso and chili paste. Reduce the heat to medium-low
and simmer 10 minutes.


3. Heat a few tablespoons of oil in a large skillet over medium-high. Add the
   tofu and cook until golden brown. Flip and cook until golden brown on the
other side. 

4. To the soup, stir in the noodles, spinach, and sesame oil. Let sit 5 minutes
   or until the noodles are soft (see note). 

5. To serve, divide the noodles between bowls and ladle over the soup back
   overtop. Add the tofu. Top as desired with eggs, green onions, sesame
seeds, and chili oil. Serve immediately.

# Notes & tips
1. I prefer to cook the noodles separately and mix in for single servings. This
   keeps the noodles from getting soggy for leftovers!
