---
layout: post
title:  "Brownie"
date:   2023-07-30
author: "Karl Kumbier"
categories: Desserts
permalink: recipes/:categories/:title.html
image:
  path: /images/brownie.jpg
  thumbnail: /images/brownie.jpg
---

# Ingredients


## Black Magic Brownies
* Chopped unsweetened chocolate, 1cup plus 1Tbsp (195g)
* Unsalted butter, 3⁄4 cup plus 2 Tbsp (195g)
* Pastry flour, 1 1/2 cup (218g)
* Baking powder, 1tsp
* Large eggs, 4
* Granulated sugar, 2 3/4 cup (540g)
* Sea salt, 1tsp 
* Vanilla extract, 2tsp

## Buenos Aires Brownies 
* Dulce de leche, 3cups plus 6 Tbsp (546g)
* Demerara sugar for sprinkling top
*  Sea salt for sprinkling top (optional)

# Directions
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. Spray an 9-by-13-in [20-by-20-cm]
   baking pan with nonstick cooking spray.

2. In a doubleboiler, melt the chocolate and butter together. Set aside to cool.

3. In a medium bowl, combine the pastry flourand baking powder. Mix with a whisk to eliminate any lumps offlour and to distribute the baking powder evenly.

4. In a large mixing bowl, combine the eggs, sugar, salt, and vanilla. Beat with
   a whisk until well combined and aerated, about 5 minutes. If you are using a
standmixer, use the whisk attachment on medium speed for this step.Add the
melted chocolate/butter mixture to the egg mixture and whisk to combine evenly.
Stir in the dry ingredients, using arubber spatula. If using a stand mixer, use
the paddle attachment for this step and mix on a low speed.

5. Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Carefully spread it to thecorners of
   the pan in an even layer. Bake for 40 to 45 minutes, or until a toothpick
inserted in the center is clean.

6. Remove from the oven and cool on a cooling rack for at least an hour. Cut into
   12 squares, using a sharp knife to avoid crushing the top. Chilling the
brownies before cutting may help the squares look more beautiful, but
they taste better at room temperature.

## Beunos Aires Brownies

1. Warm the dulce de leche slightly, on the stove or in a microwave. This will
   make it more spreadable. Place two-thirds of the browniebatter in the pan and
spread evenly to cover the bottom. Spread the dulce de leche out evenly over this
layer of batter. Top with the remaining brownie batter and spread to cover the
dulce de leche. Sprinkle the top with Demerarasugar. If you like sweet and salty
desserts, also sprinkle with a little sea salt.

2. Bake for 45 to 55 minutes. Cool and thenenjoy. These cut more easilyif they
   are refrigerated.  

# Resources

This recipe is a clone of the Zingerman's Brownies
