---
layout: post
title:  "Hummus"
date:   2021-12-19
author: "Karl Kumbier"
categories: ['Sauces & dips']
image:
  path: /images/hummus.png
  thumbnail: /images/hummus.png
permalink: recipes/:categories/:title.html
---

# Ingredients

* 1 can (15 ounces) chickpeas, rinsed and drained
* 1/2 teaspoon baking soda
* 1/4 cup lemon juice (from 1 1/2 to 2 lemons), more to taste
* 3 medium-to-large clove garlic, roughly chopped
* 1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt, to taste
* 1/2 cup tahini
* 2 to 4 tablespoons ice water, more as needed
* 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
* 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil

# Directions

1. Place the chickpeas in a medium saucepan and add the baking soda. Cover the
   chickpeas by several inches of water, then bring the mixture to a boil over
high heat. Continue boiling, reducing heat if necessary to prevent overflow, for
about 20 minutes, or until the chickpeas look bloated, their skins are falling
off, and they’re quite soft. In a fine-mesh strainer, drain the chickpeas and
run cool water over them for about 30 seconds. Set aside (no need to peel the
chickpeas for this recipe!).

2. Meanwhile, in a food processor or high-powered blender, combine the lemon
   juice, garlic and salt. Process until the garlic is very finely chopped, then
let the mixture rest so the garlic flavor can mellow, ideally 10 minutes or
longer.

3. Add the tahini to the food processor and blend until the mixture is thick and
   creamy, stopping to scrape down any tahini stuck to the sides and bottom of
the processor as necessary.

4. While running the food processor, drizzle in 2 tablespoons ice water. Scrape
   down the food processor, and blend until the mixture is ultra smooth, pale
and creamy. (If your tahini was extra-thick to begin with, you might need to add
1 to 2 tablespoons more ice water.)

5. Add the cumin and the drained, over-cooked chickpeas to the food processor.
   While blending, drizzle in the olive oil. Blend until the mixture is super
smooth, scraping down the sides of the processor as necessary, about 2 minutes.
Add more ice water by the tablespoon if necessary to achieve a super creamy
texture.

6. Taste, and adjust as necessary—I almost always add another ¼ teaspoon salt
   for more overall flavor and another tablespoon of lemon juice for extra zing.

7. Scrape the hummus into a serving bowl or platter, and use a spoon to create
   nice swooshes on top. Top with garnishes of your choice, and serve. Leftover
hummus keeps well in the refrigerator, covered, for up to 1 week.
