---
layout: post
title:  "Pie crust"
date:   2021-10-09
author: "Karl Kumbier"
categories: Doughs
permalink: recipes/:categories/:title.html
image:
  path: /images/pie-crust.png
  thumbnail: /images/pie-crust.png
---

# Ingredients
* 8 ounces all-purpose flour, such as King Arthur (1 2/3 cups; 225g), plus more for dusting
* 1/2 ounce sugar (1 tablespoon; 15g)
* 1 teaspoon (4g) Diamond Crystal kosher salt; for table salt, use half as much by volume or use the same weight
* 8 ounces unsalted, American-style butter, straight from the fridge (2 sticks; 225g), cold
* 4 ounces cold tap water (1/2 cup; 115g)
* 1/8 teaspoon (0.5g) Diamond Crystal kosher salt; for table salt, use half as much by volume or use the same weight

# Directions
1. **For the Dough:** Whisk flour, sugar, and salt together in a medium bowl.
   Cut butter into cubes no smaller than 1/2 inch, and toss with flour mixture
to break up the pieces. With your fingertips, smash each cube flat—that's it! No
rubbing or cutting. Stir in water, then knead dough against sides of the bowl
until flour has just barely incorporated. Dough temperature should register
between 65 and 70°F (18 and 21°C); if not, refrigerate briefly before rolling
and folding (see note).

2. **Make the Layers:** On a generously floured work surface, roll dough into a
   roughly 10- by 15-inch rectangle. Fold the 10-inch sides to the center, then
close the newly formed packet like a book. Fold in half once more, bringing the
short sides together to create a thick block. Divide in half with a sharp knife
or bench scraper. Dough temperature should still be somewhere between 65 and
70°F (18 and 21°C); if not, refrigerate briefly before proceeding

3. Using as much flour as needed, roll one piece into a 14-inch circle; this
   size allows ample room to line pie plate, with enough overhang to form a
generous border. At smaller sizes, dough will fall short, making it difficult to
shape edges, and thicker dough will not crisp as intended. Transfer to 9-inch
pie plate; dough should be easy to handle, and will not require any special
procedures to move. Dust off excess flour with a pastry brush, using it to
nestle dough into corners of pan. With scissors or kitchen shears, trim edge so
that it overhangs by 1 1/4 inches. For solid top crust, roll remaining dough as
before; for lattice-top pie, roll into a 9- by 15-inch rectangle instead.
Transfer to a baking sheet or parchment-lined cutting board.  (The parchment
will prevent dough from absorbing any savory odors from the board.) Wrap both
portions in plastic and refrigerate at least 2 hours and up to overnight. Use as
directed in your favorite recipe; after filling pie and sealing crusts together,
refrigerate 30 minutes before baking.


# Resources

This recipe is largely adapted from [serious
eats](https://www.seriouseats.com/best-blueberry-pie-dessert-recipe).
